# Euclidean-Polyrhythm-Drum-Machine

8 Voice Drum Machine capable of easily generating polyrhythmic patterns using Euclids Algorithm or a Step Sequencer Interface.

The main idea of this drum machine is to generate Eculidean Rhythms to easily create complex polyrhythmic drum sequences.

The drum machine is made using a Teensy 4.0 and the Rev-D audio board avaliable from PRJC. 

Eulidean Rhythms
Euclidean Rhythms are a set of rhythms that can be generated using Euclids Algorithm (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_algorithm)
for computing the greatest common divisor of two numbers. 
Euclidan rhythms were first categorised by Computer Scientest Godfried Toussaint in his 2005 paper 
'The Euclidean Algorithm Generates Traditional Musical Rhythms'. (The paper can be found here for a more in depth explination
http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca)

Euclidiean Rhythms can be generated by taking a number of steps in a musical bar and evenly dividing a number of hits into a bar
of music. The resulting pattern will have hits that are spread out as evenly as possible through the bar while still falling
on steps in the bar. 
rest = .  hit = x bar of music = ||
E.g. with 8 steps and 4 hits the resulting pattern would be |x.x.x.|
When numbers that do not divide evenly are used more complex patterns are created. The Tressilo one of the most fundamental rhythms
in Latin American Music that is also found commonly in traditional music from Sub-Saharan Africa can be generated using 8 steps
and 3 hits giving the following pattern |x..x..x.|

Polyrythm
Polyrhythms are rhythms consisting of two or more parts that are not perceived to originate form the same time division or signiture.
Polyrhythms are very common in Afro-Cuban and West African music. 
